doc/sonar-maturity.md, before:

# sonar-maturity

Computes metrics related to the maturity of SonarQube usage. Can be use to implement changes that would improve the maturity and the value received from the product.

Basic Usage: `sonar-maturity [-k <projectKeyRegexp>] [-f <file>]`
- `-f`: Define the output file, if not specified `stdout` is used
- `-k`: Computes maturity metrics solely for the projects that match the regexp
- `-h`, `-u`, `-t`, `-o`, `-v`, `-l`, `--httpTimeout`, `--threads`, `--clientCert`: See **sonar-tools** [common parameters](https://github.com/okorach/sonar-tools/blob/master/README.md)


## Required Permissions

`sonar-maturity` needs `Admin` permission on all projects

## Requirements and Installation

`sonar-maturity` is installed through the **sonar-tools** [general installation](https://github.com/okorach/sonar-tools/blob/master/README.md#install)

## Common command line parameters

`sonar-maturity` accepts all the **sonar-tools** [common parameters](https://github.com/okorach/sonar-tools/blob/master/README.md)

## Examples
```
export SONAR_HOST_URL=https://sonar.acme-corp.com
export SONAR_TOKEN=squ_83356c9b2db891d45da2a119a29cdc4d03fe654e

# Export maturity metrics for the entire platform
sonar-maturity -f maturity-report.json
```

Commit message:

Refactor-config-file (#2185)
* Move -D option in options

* Add maturity settings on CLI

* Move sonar-audit in sonar.cli

* Mutualize add_config_arg()

* Adapt tests to new audit localtion

* Add config file package location

* Remove useless file

* Add --config option

* Add doc on --config

* Add tests for maturity --config output

* Add test on version()

* Patch is a v2 API only

* Make audit_logs() public

* Fixes #2186

* Add sonar-maturity config file in the package

* test audit_logs()

* Fix test on version

doc/sonar-maturity.md, after:

# sonar-maturity

Computes metrics related to the maturity of SonarQube usage. Can be use to implement changes that would improve the maturity and the value received from the product.

Basic Usage: `sonar-maturity [-k <projectKeyRegexp>] [-f <file>]`
- `-f`: Define the output file, if not specified `stdout` is used
- `-k`: Computes maturity metrics solely for the projects that match the regexp
- `--config`: Creates a configuration file for `sonar-maturity` as `$HOME/.sonar-maturity.properties` or sends
  the default config to stdout if the file already exists
- `-D<settingKey>=<settingValue>`: Overrides config setting with value given on command line
- `-h`, `-u`, `-t`, `-o`, `-v`, `-l`, `--httpTimeout`, `--threads`, `--clientCert`: See **sonar-tools** [common parameters](https://github.com/okorach/sonar-tools/blob/master/README.md)


## Required Permissions

`sonar-maturity` needs `Admin` permission on all projects

## Requirements and Installation

`sonar-maturity` is installed through the **sonar-tools** [general installation](https://github.com/okorach/sonar-tools/blob/master/README.md#install)

## Common command line parameters

`sonar-maturity` accepts all the **sonar-tools** [common parameters](https://github.com/okorach/sonar-tools/blob/master/README.md)

## Examples
```
export SONAR_HOST_URL=https://sonar.acme-corp.com
export SONAR_TOKEN=squ_83356c9b2db891d45da2a119a29cdc4d03fe654e

# Export maturity metrics for the entire platform
sonar-maturity -f maturity-report.json

# Creates $HOME/.sonar-maturity.properties
sonar-maturity --config
# Sends a new maturity config file to stdout (because the default $HOME location was created with the previous cmd)
sonar-maturity --config >new-config.properties

# Runs maturity with 30 analyses minimum for a project to be considered maturity level 3
sonar-maturity -DprojectLevel3MinimumNbrOfAnalyses=50

```
